---
title: Writeup
toc: false
---
How did you choose your particular visual encodings and interaction techniques? What alternatives did you consider and how did you arrive at your ultimate choices?
    
I am using an index chart which is a simple line chart with a twist. Instead of raw values on the y axis, I instead used a logarithmic scale and a comparison factor. The currently highlighted value would always be at 1x, and all other values would be translated vertically in relation to the currently highlighted value. When thinking of sports stats (especially when debating with friends about the particular falloff/rise of specific players), I often care most about how these stats have changed in relation to another point in time. For example, when talking about Steph Curry, a common question is “How has his 3pt percentage changed since 2017?” In my visualization, one can easily slide the pointer to either 2017 or 2025 to directly compare those two points, and see that his 3pt percentage is about .92x of what it was in 2017, meaning that his percentage has gone down. In choosing this sort of relational representation, I looked to online media surrounding sports, which often spoke in ways such as: “player x is 2x as good as they were in 2022”. With this sort of visualization one can directly check the validity of that statement (I do understand that shooting is not the definite metric which dictates basketball, but it is a good example). Each different stat has a categorical color encoding to visually distinguish it, and a callout at the end of the line with provides a label as to what stat it describes. Additionally, there is a key above the chart which can be used for this purpose. The pointer is a black vertical bar which extends to the upper and lower bounds of the graph. This is to give a clear representation of what year is being highlighted without the viewer misinterpreting it as a datapoint (all the data is colored, and the gridlines and related items are greyscale). Additionally, the vertical bar is quite wide (especially compared to the D3 example for an index chart, found here: https://observablehq.com/@d3/index-chart/2), because this data does not have nearly as many distinct records as the data used in the example, and thus a wider bar will reinforce that the data is coarse. The bar also snaps to each record to further this goal. A thin bar might give the impression that there is a datapoint every month instead of every year. The max and min on the vertical axis were chosen as they are the limit of the actual data so that the graph need not expand as the vertical bar slides. The example on the D3 gallery does this, and I found it a little distracting to have the scale sliding around, so I omitted it. 



I began with an entirely different dataset: the GO gene ontology dataset provided here:https://geneontology.org. I used a subset of the data which referred to the genes specific to Drosophila, which is a type of fruit fly used as a model organism. This visualization was an arc diagram, however due to the hierarchal nature of this data I didn’t think that an arc diagram actually provided meaningful information. The alternative, which is some sort of network visualization, would require a small slice of the subset to be actually interpretable due to the size and complexity of the dataset. Due to these issues, I changed tactics and went hunting for basketball data. I considered creating a stacked bar chart where each segment of the bar would be a Warriors player’s points for each game in the 2016-2017 season, with the height of the entire bar being the teams total points for that game. The bar chart would have a slider which would allow the viewer to change the season and the bars would slide around, possibly leaving the chart from the bottom if the player left the team and entering from the top if a player joined the team. However, I struggled to find the question that I would answer with this visualization. I made the mistake of starting with visualization and trying to work backwards to find a question. Consequently, I narrowed my focus to a single player’s stats and picked Steph Curry. Out of all the stats listed, the shooting stats were the ones that I believe most people would gravitate towards and would be useful to the largest number of people. Additionally, as he is known as a player who primarily shoots from the field, these stats seemed most relevant to him specifically. For example, if I were to analyze Draymond Green I would have used blocks, assists, and other supporting statistics. 

    




Sources: Basketball Reference,  https://www.basketball-reference.com/players/c/curryst01.html#all_per_game_stats
